# **Project 1: Data Modeling with Postgres**

## **Introduction**
A startup called Sparkify wants to analyze the data they've been collecting on songs and user activity on their new music streaming app. The analytics team is particularly interested in understanding what songs users are listening to. Currently, they don't have an easy way to query their data, which resides in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

## **Project Description**
The goal of this project is to create a database schema and ETL pipeline using Postres database with tables designed to optimize queries on song play analysis. A Star schema design is used in this 
project because it allows for efficient query of data with few tables.

### **Song Dataset**
The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format.

song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json

And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```

### **Log Dataset**
The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
{"artist":"Des'ree","auth":"Logged In","firstName":"Kaylee","gender":"F","itemInSession":1,"lastName":"Summers","length":246.30812,"level":"free","location":"Phoenix-Mesa-Scottsdale, AZ","method":"PUT","page":"NextSong","registration":1540344794796.0,"sessionId":139,"song":"You Gotta Be","status":200,"ts":1541106106796,"userAgent":"\"Mozilla\/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; WOW64) AppleWebKit\/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome\/35.0.1916.153 Safari\/537.36\"","userId":"8"}

```

## **Project Structure**

In addition to the data files, the project workspace includes six files:

1. **test.ipynb** displays the first few rows of each table to let you check your database.
2. **create_tables.py** drops and creates your tables. You run this file to reset your tables before each time you run your ETL scripts.
3. **etl.ipynb** reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into your tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
4. **etl.py** reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into your tables. You can fill this out based on your work in the ETL notebook.
5. **sql_queries.py** contains all your sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
6. **README.md** provides discussion on your project.

## **Project Steps**
* Write CREATE, DROP, INSERT queries in sql_queries.py
* Create database and tablues using create_tables.py
* Build ETL processes using etl.ipynb
* Build ETL pipeline using etl.py


